Step 1: Install VirtualBox on Linux (Ubuntu)

Download VirtualBox:

Visit VirtualBox Download Page.
Select the appropriate package for your Linux distribution (Ubuntu/Debian systems will use .deb packages).
Install VirtualBox:

Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you downloaded the .deb file.
Run the following command:
bash
Copy code
sudo dpkg -i <VirtualBox_package_name>.deb
If you get errors about missing dependencies, run:
bash
Copy code
sudo apt --fix-broken install
Add User to vboxusers Group:

After installing VirtualBox, add your user to the vboxusers group to manage virtual machines:
bash
Copy code
sudo usermod -aG vboxusers $(whoami)


Step 2: Set Up a Virtual Machine with Ubuntu 22.04

Download Ubuntu 22.04 Image:
Visit OsBoxes and download the Ubuntu 22.04 image.
Create Virtual Machine in VirtualBox:
Launch VirtualBox and click on New to create a new VM.
Name the VM (e.g., Ubuntu-22.04), and select Linux as the type and Ubuntu (64-bit) as the version.
Allocate memory (2GB or more is recommended).
Choose Use an existing virtual hard disk file, and select the .vdi image downloaded from OsBoxes.
Finish the setup and start the VM.
Step 3: Install Nginx on the VM
Install Nginx:

Open a terminal inside the Ubuntu VM.
Run the following commands to update the package list and install Nginx:
bash

sudo apt update
sudo apt install nginx
Start Nginx:

After installation, start the Nginx service:


sudo systemctl start nginx
Verify Installation:

Open a browser within your VM or on the host machine and navigate to http://<VM_IP>. You should see the Nginx welcome page.
Step 4: Scan the VM with Nmap from the Host Machine
Get the VM’s IP Address:

In your VM, run:

ip a
Note the IP address

Install Nmap on Host Machine:


sudo apt install nmap  # For Linux

Scan the VM for Open Ports:

On your host machine, run an Nmap scan to detect open ports:

nmap <VM_IP>

Nmap Output
bash
Copy code
PORT    STATE SERVICE
22/tcp  open  ssh
80/tcp  open  http
443/tcp closed https

Step 6: Observations on Open Ports
Port 22: The SSH port is open, allowing remote connections.
Port 80: This is the default port for HTTP services, which confirms Nginx is running.
Port 443: Closed because SSL (HTTPS) is not configured.